you may not be watching these videos in
order you may be watching these videos
in the year 2020 or the year 2050 for
all I know but I just this evening
recorded two videos back-to-back the
video I recorded before this one was
supposed to be a response to my critics
a response to my patreon supporters on
the topic of minimalism so not my first
video on that subject and we're really
here talking about minimalism in the
form that has become popular become
influential within the digital vegan
demi-monde right because you hear a lot
about something with it the vegan baby
want I think there are some obvious
reasons for what that is in terms of the
ethical and ecological impulses that
draw people towards veganism many of
those same people are drawn towards
minimalism so I've got three different
messages here and I'm gonna treat them
as anonymous I just don't I don't know
if these people would want me shouting
them out on my channel and we the the
video recorded before this one I thought
I was gonna get straight into minimalism
but I ended up talking more generally
about the question of receiving and
responding to criticism and specifically
receiving and responding to criticism
via patreon so these are people who pay
one dollar a month you have the
privilege of criticizing me but anyway I
do I mean I get all kinds of them
sometimes very worthwhile and
interesting disagreements sent to me
within patreon I think just a couple of
people I think two people quit because
they felt that I was anti Donald Trump
now on this channel I don't think you
can actually find me saying anything bad
about Donald Trump but maybe just the
tone of my voice they presume that I'm
to disapprove it but hey you know that's
how it's gonna be
you're gonna lose you're gonna need some
support every time you voice an opinion
but Tim I don't think two people quit
because they they felt that was not
supportive enough towards the new
president the United States Donald Trump
I mentioned that because someone may be
watching this video I was mentioned the
year 2020 the year 2050 maybe you've
forgotten who Donald Trump was well at
one time Donald Trump was elected
president United States of America okay
so the first letter are gonna read out
here from a patreon supporter is
supportive of my view and then the
second one is less supportive or
more critical or more questioning of my
view and then the third one is
completely hostile so let's see all
right question one this is or letter one
this is from Alexa I'll use her first
name only
Alexa writes I agree that minimalism she
jazz in quotation marks quote unquote
minimalism usually ends up being one of
the more diluted forms of consumerism
because in addition to the sort of
ostentation you highlight ie that I
highlight in my earlier video on this
topic in addition to the sort of awe
sensation you highlight it encourages
the constant drive to upgrade your
possessions when you allow yourself very
little you're always on the lookout for
a new Holy Grail version of the items
you have continually buying improved
versions of necessities items that took
energy or resources to produce and
getting rid of perfectly good functional
items because it is pod that is actually
an interesting point that I mean III
omitted in my earlier video I mean it's
so obvious you can you can fail to
recognize it but one aspect of
minimalism is getting rid of perfectly
good functional items as simple as it
sounds it's easy to overlook that um
okay so she doesn't say personal
anecdote you often see this with
photographers in an effort to combat the
urge to constantly acquire more and more
photography gear they pare down their
collections to a bare minimum but are
constantly selling and purchasing newer
and more costly
cameras to try to find the one camera
that will be the best at everything when
the perfect tool for every job simply
does not exist so what she's alluding to
here is that there's a kind of false a
false god of productivity a false idol
of what productivity is because
productivity can't be achieved by having
just one perfect camera or just one
perfect tool you actually do need the
clutter of a variety of different
cameras of different tools for different
jobs ok so again an interesting point
that was not covered in my first video
on the topic I'm reminded of here with
all these conversations about minimalism
for me one of the reasons why I don't
own a bicycle is I know just how much is
involved by when you want a bicycle you
don't just on a bicycle you own all the
tools you need to change a tire
a lot of tools related to repairing the
bicycle you know you need a whole garage
full of stuff to be serious about
bicycles and as is alluded to here with
cameras a bicycle rarely means one
bicycle anyone who's serious about
biking pretty soon they own seven
bicycles it's it's hard to own fewer
than three bicycles because you know
there's one kind of bicycle you use in
the mud there's one bicycle use in the
rain if you live in Canada you have a
totally different bicycle for the snow
you have a road bike maybe you have a
racing bike which is not the same as a
road bike maybe you have a grand touring
bike very quickly people are serious
about bicycles can spiral into having a
whole garage full of stuff but on the
other hand as she's saying you cannot
actually have one tool for every job in
terms of what's functional or what's
effective actually you need different
kinds of cameras and different kinds of
bicycles for different kinds of things
so it's lose-lose people this is a
ballast yell did you think the story was
gonna have a happy ending no it's all
bad news it's all bad news
all right um I continue to rehear this
letter from Alexa and ultimately
minimalism itself minimalism in
quotation marks again that's my girl
Alexa minimalism itself is a product
being sold the rule of only keeping
things that bring you joy is straight
from the konmari method so this is
alluding to Mary condo so I did my duty
I had never heard of Marie condo before
I googled her
I looked up her YouTube videos before
broadcasting with you now yeah this is
some this is some Mary Kondo
anyway so she goes I'm Marie Kondo can
be credited with much of the current
vogue of minimalism especially with the
Martha Stewart / old magazine set not
only doesn't Marie Kondo sell books and
workbooks detailing her doctrine of
paring down your for maximum
happiness and empowerment
she runs a consulting business to help
rich people hire someone to directly
coach their minimalism in person
minimalism isn't the key to happiness
any more than beer or cologne or
expensive makeup
veganism is but people are sad and wants
to be less sad so it selects I really do
like Alexis running style but actually
actually I didn't really read that in
the right tone of voice but she really
sticks in the the dagger at the end
there minimalism isn't the key to
happiness anymore than beer or Cologne
but people are sad and they wanted one
so I think that is true I think in many
cases there is a yearning for a more
meaningful a more happy a more
satisfying life and at the root of
sometimes of people getting involved
veganism definitely people getting
involved with something like minimalism
and she ends with a joke and inside joke
because I alluded to the fact I think I
donate on this video I said warning
anyone who is taking a shot of vodka
every time I mentioned Laos you will get
drunk because some people joke to the
past and take a shot of vodka every time
I mentioned Laos every time I mention
Cambodia so Alexis actually ends this
message by saying PS anyone playing that
drinking game is dead by now cute all
right so the next one so I mentioned I'm
gonna read three messages the next one
is a little bit more questioning a
little bit more to screwing with me and
then I have a letter a long letter
really criticizing me or disagree with
me fundamentally so this from guy named
Alec all right so using first knew the
first one was Alexa and this is Alec
okay
keep them straight Alec asks isn't
anti-consumerism a kind of minimalism
that is essential to environmentalism
and ecology question mark okay
so I pause I'm gonna read the whole
message I actually disagree with this
fundamental premise here i I think that
anti-consumerism like anti capitalism
suffers from a horrendously vague
definition it's not just a negative
definition it's a horrendously vague
definition I am NOT an anti capitalist
and I mean even though it's easy to be a
critic of consumerism it's easy to
criticize the excesses of consumerism at
the same time we have to say well what
then is anti-consumerism really
I do not think auntie consumerism is
essential to environmentalism I do not
think any century consumerism is
essential to ecology I don't so actually
I do disagree with the fundamental
purpose here now I'm gonna keep reading
his message I'm not gonna just monologue
on what my views are on the topic but if
you want to know what my views are you
can see any of the videos on this
channel that deal with what I call the
you know habitat conservation approach
the wildlife management approach right I
think that those challenges habitat
conservation wildlife management they
have nothing to do with consumers and
ranty consumerism except in the vaguest
sense in which we can define these terms
so that everything is related to
consumers mateys I mean you know if you
define things vaguely enough they're all
linked but you know ultimately from my
perspective a group of people in a
position of political power sit down
with a map they draw a lines on a map
and then they have men from the police
and the army enforce the lines in the
map but what are the lines in the map
mean they mean over there you're allowed
to cut down trees over here you're not
over there you're allowed to dump
pollution in the water and over here
you're not and here are the lines what
kind of pollution are you allowed to
dump in the water
what kind of pollution air not so this
is the brutal reality of regulation um
what there was a hilarious quote from
Alan Greenspan all power to regulate
comes out of the barrel of a gun
ladies and gentlemen Alan Greenspan the
worst Fed Chairman in the history the
red state Alan Greenspan has the world's
alright my opinion Alan Greenspan has
got to be table for another video let's
get on with with with Alex letter here
all right so Alex says we know how many
non-vegan environmentalists there are
presumably there are also many
environmentalists who spend big on
superfluous and harmful things that
require environmental harm alcohol
tobacco other drugs unnecessarily large
cars burning and nasarah mats of fuel
long distance vacations of little value
etc do you reject this kind of
consumerism and is there a better word
for this rejection than minimalism
question mark so I've already
anticipated this because I've been
talking about
extent to which I do not reject
consumerism um you know and again I mean
you know you could say that I'm viewing
instead towards a regulation ISM you
know I don't I don't think on a cultural
level progress for ecology or progress
for animal rights can come about through
minimalism but again I'll reflect on
this more in a moment maybe a little bit
later but I mean I think - I think I
understand psychologically why do some
people cling to minimalism it may be
because they come from a background of
being a compulsive shopper of being
someone who just buys too much stuff
well I don't have that kind of
background if anything my problem is the
OPP's extreme I have a lot of experience
living my whole life out of one suitcase
one suitcase one backpack you know of
owning extremely little so I'm not
really saying this to insult those
people I think they're people have a
serious psychological problem where they
are really hung up on owning expensive
things or just owning a lot of things
and they get into credit card debt so
for them minimalism has as a as a
meaning that's totally different from
what we're discussing on this channel
which is really more political and
ecological and linked to veganism other
forms of activism and our long-term
attempts to militate for cultural change
so I'm there making a significant
concession for minimalism but so he asks
do you reject this tiny consumerism and
is there a better word for this
rejection than minimalism well let me
know again when you have regulations
some people are really offended that I
even say this here's a very clear
example regulation let's say the
government has a positive tax on leather
shoes or I say positive because I mean
raising the price okay so all of a
sudden when you go to the store to buy a
nike running shoe that's made at a
leather it's 25% more fat more expensive
it's a 25% chance on a leather running
shoe from Nike like Jordan Air Jordan 1
Jordan the jordan one's 20 overs Norte
and the government reallocates
some of that tax monies have a negative
tax on all of the shoes that contain no
leather whatsoever let's say no animal
products whatsoever so right next to the
Jordan one bye
the same company Nike the same
corporation they make a shoe called the
hyper dunk to buy knowledge then the
hyper dunk it's almost entirely made at
a plastic they have other shoes that are
made out of you know cotton and canvas
and other materials there are tons of
other shoes even made by that one
company right so now the price for the
leather shoe is boosted up 25% the price
for the non leather shoe is reduced to a
percent to me this is not minimalism
this is not ante consumerism this is
completely working within the rules of a
capitalist consumer society but this
changes changes the world and again many
many times talked about our attitudes
walt homosexuality I think is a huge
example how changes in culture and laws
have changed the status of homosexuals
in the last 100 years um you know but of
course the other one I talk about all
the time is cigarette smoking right so
even just price controls even just
taxation can send a powerful message and
as you know health information can send
a powerful message and as I say again
and again with homosexuals the fact that
homosexuals organized permanent
institutions such as you know bars and
nightclubs and restaurants that also was
a huge part of their their struggle and
the success of their struggle my opinion
anyway you guys have heard me talk about
stuff in other videos why do I mention
here from my perspective none of that
has anything to do with consumerism or
minimalism so that's my paradigm in this
video we've summarized a lot of my
approach to veganism we've summarized
the community aspect we summarized the
habitat conservation aspect alright
let's get back to Alex message to me
here okay
so alec asks is there a word for this
other than minimalism is this what you
mean by
instrumentalism I'm not sure that this
word is adequate so I can answer this
one simply no when I say instrumental
ISM I'm talking about my own attitude
toward the material possessions I own so
fabulous set of pens here I think these
are now illegal because they've
disappeared from store shelves this is a
fabulous pen made in China okay and this
is a Chinese knockoff of a very
expensive pen made in Germany called the
Lambie pen why do I own three of them
spend all my time studying Chinese my
point was simply that I can regard my
possessions my worldly possessions as
instruments as means to an end why do I
own this not because it makes me feel
important not because it makes me feel
wealthy not for all kinds of other
reasons that minimalists critique but
nevertheless i think when you look at
function when you look at productivity
when you look at outcomes when you look
at robustness that was the main topic at
document priority Oh being robust being
prepared to deal with unforeseen
circumstances those things were alluded
to in the first message I was reading
out before there are there's a totally
separate set of criteria for how I
evaluate the value of owning things that
again doesn't have to do with minimalism
but also from my perspective dozens
uncritically in britain brace
consumerism
but at the same time you know this kind
of worldly possession it got delivered
here on a truck it's a product of the
capitalist system it's a product of the
banking system I'm not gonna front like
I'm somehow you know opposed to the
whole edifice of modern Western
capitalism I'm not or that I don't
benefit from it because I do I do better
I am very grateful that I could buy this
pen for eight Qui instead of paying a
hundred euros for it
made in Germany that's why I wonder I
don't know if these are now illegal but
I noticed they all disappeared from the
store shelves I think the company that
owns the patent in Germany I wonder if
they had a crackdown and said hey you're
you're copying our style oh alright um
one can only speculate perhaps you could
just call it aunty consumerism but I
think would also be accurate to describe
abstinence from environmentally harmful
consumerism as a form of minimalism oh
we got a technical issue here
as a form of minimalism perhaps
environmentalist minimalism or
ecological minimalism or even ethical
minimalism would be good terms I don't
think it's fair to describe all
minimalism as self-indulgent even if
that form is the most prominent on the
Internet these days after all the
internet is an advertising medium
we cannot allow advertisers to hijack
and ruin every word for potentially
answering anti-consumerist philosophies
even getting rid of stuff that we own
that others are more likely to actually
use could be driven by environmentalists
and ethical motives he says that he
would be glad to give away his own junk
if he thinks it won't be functional for
him
much of what he owns in this way this
junk
came by the way of presence or an
inheritance when I come spending money I
consider myself a kind of minimalist
etcetera etcetera
so the only thing I have to say in
response to that message is that we have
to be careful that we do not define
minimalism so broadly or so vaguely that
it means anything and everything this is
a problem there often when you're
debating atheism versus monotheism if
you allow concepts like God to become so
vague that they can mean anything then
you can't refute them and also the
arguments made in support of them become
meaningless and this is a problem
because minimalism can become so broadly
defined and so vague that it starts to
be meaningless and to be sure something
like consumerism or capitalism can
become so broad and so vague okay so my
third message that actually strongly
disagrees with me this person writing to
me who I will allow to remain anonymous
let's use a fake name let's say this is
from Lisa but I do know who it's from
this is really disagreeing with me on
the point of minimalism but something I
alluded to earlier in this video is that
my own perspective on this is partly in
form of the fact that circumstances in
my life have forced me to live a life
that is pretty minimalistic to only own
things I can carry in one suitcase to
own very little to care very little
about worldly possessions I've mentioned
many times up until age 37 I never owned
a cellular phone I never
around a car I never owned so many of
the things that many modern Western
people take for granted okay so this
person who were calling Lisa writes to
me and says I am NOT anti-consumerist I
am a pro consumption capitalist but I
believe that excess hurts us and hurts
the environment
she says that the full definition of
meaningless sorry put me the full
definition of minimalism is not to only
own things that give you joy but to own
things that give you joy or that you
need right now again we're getting vague
here necessity can mean anything assess
any means different things to different
people right some people think it's
necessary don't 10 pairs of shoes etc
etc but with that being noted um we
continue
so she says point one from your video is
on robustness or efficiency
she says obviously there is a tipping
point for everything in your tool
example there comes a point when the
volume of tools in the level of
disorganization completely outweighs any
robustness advantage if you can't find
the tool you were looking for or if it
takes too long to find it you'd be
better off running to the store and
buying a new one especially that for the
vast majority of us time is money
okay now you know I feel that's a very
weak refutation of the point I'm making
and I think I made a very strong point
in that video about robustness and the
point that excessive robustness can be
counterproductive
well excessive minimalism can be
counterproductive so you know I think
that is a very weak response to that but
you know we live in a world where anyway
I think it's really useful to warn
people about the concept of robustness
about being prepared for unforeseen
circumstances and I don't think it's
useful to warn people that they are too
prepared they are excessively prepared
for unforeseen circumstances I mean just
think about your own life whether it's
in business or any other context person
but I mean oh sorry just say I think
that is a very weak response even though
of course on a technical level it's true
yes you may be you may have a friend
who
constantly keeps a lifeboat in his
apartment in case the city is flooded do
you know any people like that I don't I
know a lot of people who are not
prepared for even the slightest
unforeseen problem in circumstance in
their life they're not prepared for if
the electricity cuts out they're not
prepared you know and they're they're
really prepared to live a life devoted
to a very small range of functions and
they can't cope very easily with any
unforeseen circumstance and again I
think that minimalism as as a doctrine
and as a practice and as we can all see
it on YouTube takes you further and
further down that path of frankly a life
that is fragile a life where you can't
cope with unforeseen circumstances and
problems ok number two I think you're
saying that you're more interested in
utility than happiness and she goes on
to say more about this um again I just I
think this is so I mean she's really
strongly disagree with me I'm not gonna
read the whole message because there's a
lot there's a lot of words here but I
mean so what if this were true if it's
true that I'm more interested in utility
than happiness so what on the other hand
if I'm more interested in happiness than
utility if I disagree and say the up so
what this is just kind of irrelevant to
me so if she's right
it doesn't really overturning the points
made my video but you know it's still
kind of an interesting philosophical
question is utility more more worthy
than happiness um she expands the so to
say some interesting things she says the
joy you seek is the fulfillment that
comes to your that comes from your
identity as a scholar of Buddhism and in
that sense what gives you meaning is
owning certain books she says I liked
the last sentence of your video where
you said that what we own defines what
we can do ok interesting I think that's
perfectly accurate however we live in a
service economy and unless you are
seriously into self-sufficiency as my
parents were this is interesting her
parents she says repaired everything
themselves sewed their own clothing grew
their own food hunted gathered firewood
and I participate in these things as a
child which is probably why I despised
them today
so again I mean part of this stuff it
reflects our own subjective you know
experiences with these things as I've
said in reality I have been forced to
live quite a minimalistic lifestyle many
ways I would prefer to have had a much
less minimalistic lifestyle than the one
I had when I was doing humanitarian work
when I was a scholar of Buddhism when I
was even had pretty normal jobs museums
and even now that I'm moving to Hong to
take up this job at University where I
can't own anything more than I can fit
in my backpack so I'm at one end of the
spectrum appreciating what's in the
middle and she maybe grew up at the
opposite extreme of the spectrum
appreciating you know what was in the
middle so that's interesting so she's
one of the tiny minority people who grew
up in a household where people sewed
their own clothes very very rare very
very few people do that right um okay
you don't need specialized equipment for
things you don't specialize in well yeah
but none of my example suggested that
okay so she then says minimalism is not
for everyone but a lot of people live as
if they were self-sufficient keeping
tons of things just in case when in
reality they would call a repairman if
they needed anything to be repaired I
think your statement about what we
should own should actually be seen as
prescriptive not descriptive in other
words you should own what you need for
what you actually do I'll never repair a
car in my life and neither will my
husband we don't need these things I
have no need to own books on Buddhist
philosophy because I'm not a scholar of
Buddhism and you probably don't need to
own a closet full of formal dresses
whereas I do practically speaking
keeping things you don't use or like is
like letting someone live rent-free on
your home on the off-chance that might
provide some use to you at a later date
most Millennials would be better off
having an estate sale and ridding
themselves of grandma's clutter because
for them it would be junk on the other
hand some hipster repairman might really
enjoy having boxes of 19th century tulle
that he bought in an estate sale or
goodwill PS unless you run a restaurant
you don't need three can openers ever
okay so a cute way a cute way to the end
the message I think though even though
she seems to make a strong argument I
think in reality she has lost this
argument because what she's done is
moved the goalposts
she has retreated and she has really
weakened the definition of minimalism
itself again and again so that now by
the end of this message what is the
meaning of minimalism at the beginning
she had one definition that you should
only own things that give you joy or
things that you need okay but the end of
this message this has been weakened and
expanded and loosened to the point where
minimalism seems to mean almost nothing
you know what minimalism is just well
don't be a hoarder
ou don't own so much stuff that you're
trapping in it okay
nobody was debating that right so I mean
again this is like if you're in a debate
about atheism of versus believing in God
and the the Christian rediff or or you
jugu a christian or to a philosophical
member of Judaism and they they make the
definition of gods so vague that God
becomes the principle of gravity that
God becomes this abstract principle in
the laws of physics it's like well okay
now we're no longer debating something I
want to debate I don't want to debate
whether or not gravity exists I want to
debate whether or not God exists I
wanted to be whether or not I want to
debate whether or not the Bible is
really an important book for people to
read I wanted to be you know the role of
religion Modern Life I don't want to
debate this this more vague version so
likewise for me I started my video
dealing with a specific definition of
minimalism and that we definitely is a
definition in the first message I write
out that we see people acting out
performing on YouTube and that we see
people making money out of popularizing
on YouTube with books they sell with
consulting services and so on so that's
I think a hard definition of minimalism
and when we look at that you see exactly
what I reject I reject
I'll get her name wrong but I reject the
woman who was mentioned the consultant
who by the way makes videos on YouTube
about how you
fold your socks and I can fold your
shirts and rearrange your house to be a
clutter free and minimalistic it's very
clear what it is I'm rejecting and I
think it's also very clear what is she's
rejecting but if we just keep on
loosening up the definition of
minimalism to the point where it's just
a common-sense practical piece of
guidance to not drown in your own
garbage well then we've redefined
minimalism to the point where it is no
longer worth debating hit me up